**Phuqylia** (elvish, approx.: "flying rock that bounces of something"; same: Phukeria) ― is a **bagel-shaped world**, its mostly flat upper side surface features **four continents**, one of them is around the mountain **Szmargonrogowie** (fragonic: "big earth mouth that spits suns") formed around the hole through which suns pass. Each morning four suns emerge simultaneously in a circle and launch into the sky, stopping at their zenith at noon before falling back each evening. Four suns rotate in a circle over the span of year, **each sun brings its own season** onto the lands it's turned to: red summer sun scorches the lands, purple autumn sun brings the cooling rains, white winter sun covers everything in a protective layer of snow, green spring sun brings most enjoyable temperatures with occasional terrible days. Suns movement in relation to the surface creates *some differences* compared to spherical worlds we've heard so much about:
* the day and night cycle is the same for the whole side
* the day and night combined and relative lengths never change, with night being slightly longer the further from the center
* the seasons rotate around the surface, but no drastic change in the center
* the suns rise and fall at the same side instead of moving across the sky
* the suns never reach the high noon for the most of the side, except the center
* the parts of the surface behind mountains and possibly other large objects never receive sunlight, these lands formed their own unique ecosystems
* the outer edge of the world is covered in walls of prehistoric ice, no life can survive there

**The night sky is a tapestry of visuals** ― the outer wild magic flows and explodes, although those distant events don't bring any light to the surface. Across the skies **crystal moons of complex geometrical shapes** float in patterns that are puzzling yet trackable. Both practical and spiritual, the moons help navigate and gift inspiration, sometimes they even reflect distant light. 

What's on the other side of the bagel, you ask? Don't worry about it!

Now why don't we have a closer look at the side that matters? Around 42 km tall m. **Szmargonrogowie** that can be seen from almost anywhere on the upper side (under the appropriate weather) lie the grazing lands where **the ancient fragons** ― giants who once ruled the world ― sunbathe and relax in the boiling hot springs, unphased by the bustling buzzing of the small folk. The smallest of them ― **the fragonborn** ― as the name suggests, live in the vicinity; around the coasts of the central continent lies an **unending line of settlements**, most of them are located **in the littoral zone**: in the mornings and evenings when the suns are close, these settlements are submerged. This usually makes contact with others less plausible, as a result the natives of [[Fragonborn Moorings (wip)]] are the biggest weirdos, but they're also **natural magic users**. That's been **Apsche-Tochiczone** (fragonic: "central home ground").

**Sous Lesoreiles** (elvish, approx.: "lands lighted by many suns") ― is the **biggest** of all continents and most **versatile** in both biomes and cultures, despite the thousand year efforts of elves: they waged endless wars, enslaved many and eradicated more. Among the enslaved there were goblins, but little rascals eventually made it into full citizenship, took elven jobs and spread elven culture way beyond [[Elven-Goblin High and Wide Kingdom Botania]]. Among not eradicated: disturbing humanoid insects like those from [[Antalian Hives (wip)]] and [[Shrimple Burrow (wip)]], as well as dwarves. Dwarves spent most of their history underground and that's coincidentally where most of [[Dwarven Tunneled States of Burdum (wip)]] is located, with the exception of a few new settlements near m. Phubotabolamayas (elvish, approx.: "rock that is fucking lame"). There's also [[Burdum-Phubotabolamayas Shadow Zone (wip)]] and many human city-states, some have respectable influence, like Gathania ― major port city that almost exclusively controls the dwarven trade.

**Sous Resolunesari** (elvish, approx.: "lands watched by many moons") ― is the original continent of humans. And orcs, the reason for previous sentence. Orcs have always being problematic, nomadic savages who raid and eat everybody, including each other, but they're mostly unorganized and don't leave [[Orcan Territories (wip)]] for long. There used to be 11 human kingdoms spread from coast to coast across many plains and steppes, hills and mountains, forests and jungles, with their own complex politics and colorful arts, most of which is history now, due to the **Massive Dorcan Invasion** over 600 years ago. Most humans were killed, others fled, founding new homes across the world ― [[All These City-States (wip)]]. In the ruins of their once beautiful multicultural civilization, [[Beastkin Clusterpack]] established their presence. There're also a bunch of elven ports and forts.

**Sous-ta Selux'verasi** (elvish, approx.: "lands covered by many skies") ― is the third continent, it's kinda sad. Not only elven colonization disrupted the natural order in [[Goliath-Gnomic Commonwealth (wip)]], but about a fifth of the continent covered not only in wild jungles but in [[Wild Magic Anomaly Zone (wip)]] (very much magical chernobyl). The first became home to **pirates and international criminals** as well as a place of never-ending **partisan wars**, the second is mostly shunned yet rarely attracts **brave and stupid**. 

**Hhwaii** (tief-lingo: "warm place") ― is the biggest archipelago; a fifth of its lands is volcanoes, a third is wild jungles, and all of it is home to **tieflings** known as [[Independent Isles of Hhwaii (wip)]]. Despite **disturbing tendencies and demonic appearances** of the natives, this is probably one of the **friendliest** places along with [[Nagan Hunting Grounds (wip)]].

**Ashshaii-Ttrakoravora** (tief-lingo: "waters that are homes to nagas and other terrible monsters") ― is the ocean. The ocean is uncalm, many different currents collide and create rather **unpleasant conditions for traversing**. Nagan villages are scattered across the bottom; despite their repelling looks and massive fishtails, nagas are the **friendliest** and the **smallest** fish in the ocean.

