**Half beast, half people**, both on the inside and the outside, primal yet conscious, tender in life yet fierce in death, they live like beasts, they die like people. The origin of [[Beastkin]] is a mystery even to the wisest monkin, what known is that their ancestors dwelled in the ruins of 11 human kingdoms years after the human exodus caused by massive orc invasion. Since then cities crumbled and nature reclaimed the land, and beastkin in a way were the engineers of this development. Beastkin never tried living like humans, instead they integrated with the environment: plain fields and dark forests, overgrown farms and rusty workshops ― all are equally suitable. They consciously shaped their society around their primal needs, they're **the creative survivors**.

The beastkin societal structure is best described as **an overlapping arrangement of multikin packs**, where a pack is a group of 1 to 11 mil people with common interests and needs. Packs can represent: a group of miners, a workshop crew, a few hunters, an anti-orc patrol, a farmer cooperative, the whole clusterpack population, etc.. These packs **form naturally** out of individual needs and **naturally collaborate** with each other creating a flow of trades; on a bigger scale **the resource distribution is controlled by the Monkouncel** in **Beastopia**.

Beastopia is **a mega formation of packs that lives in the ruins and surroundings of Naio'Rakh** ― once the richest city of all human kingdoms, built of marble, glass and metal, its spacious halls and streets are overgrown, its beautiful aqueducts and pools are teeming with primitive life. Over generations, **the city was transformed to suit beastkin**: improvised farms on the rooftops, logs and ropes for agile transportation, paths through buildings' holes for heavy carts, somewhere the city is patched with primarily efficient beastkin designs, somewhere it's excavated and exploited.

**Beastkin Clusterpack** spreads to all sides from Beastopia, covering a significant part of former human territories. These territories happened to be full of human heritage: not only tools and materials that can be repurposed, but even **art and shinies that can be exported**. 

Beastkin don't have religion*, but they have *big brothers - spirit guides* manifested through **totems**; beastkin don't worship them, they just show their respect; they don't ask for anything, but they won't mind an occasional exchange of gifts. Apart from spiritual guidance, the totems have a rather tangible influence on the beastkin lives: **only near a kin's totem a kin can be born**. While this greatly limits the worldwide spread of beastkin, it's not an obstacle for beastkin free spirit. **The kin often travel around** the Clusterpack in search of whatever, **mingling with each other** so much that a kin's village can only be told apart by a kin's totem. While it's not in any way a definitive parameter, the kin **often gravitate towards natural roles**: e.g., leaders are mostly monkin and wolfkin, cowkin and harekin tend to do most of the farming, when there's an international delegation, there's almost always an observant elephankin or a sly foxkin nearby, and when it seems like everything is hopeless it rather definitely involves a good-for-running-only horsekin. The kin **never have a certain profession**, they just do what the pack needs if they feel like it, be it a search for resources or fighting off orc invaders, and if they don't feel like it.. it's not like they need a roof above their head, right?
\[* but they have superstitions: animalistic like wolfkin howling or monkin mutual cleaning and cultural like leaving a bowl of porridge for spirits or not knitting on the doorstep]

**Beastlit** ― the official language of Beastkin Clusterpack, ― sounds.. screw it, just imagine animals speaking finnish or danish. Beastlit has similarities with the human language family, but it sports simpler grammar and a wide variety of words for very specific feelings like a catkin's need to drop stuff or a horsekin's depression due to lack of purpose. Linguistically, each kin has its own dialect, but functionally each dialect is kin' jargon: every kin speaks their own dialect and understands just as much as they need. Kin' names are literals of rather literal meaning, often followed by a name or names of packs they're associated with.